Importing from 'EXIF4FILM' Android Application
ExIf 35
May 29, 2013
-----------------------------
	As of this writing ExIf35 is a Windows-only software and does not 
have a mobile counterpart on either the Android or iOS platforms. At the
present time as an alternative it is suggested that users who have need
of a mobile solution use the Android application 'EXIF4FILM' until such
time as an Android counterpart of ExIf 35 can be wrtten. At the current
time it is possible to use the XML output files of EXIF4FILM as input
for roll files in ExIf35. 

	Not all fields handled by an EXIF4FILM file are currently
imported to ExIf 35. Key fields that are left out include geolocation
data and roll load and unload dates and times. General information about
each exposure and about the lens and filters used are transferred into
the ExIf 35 roll. There are a few points that should be considered when
importing the XML files though. 


Exposure program, distance, metering and focus mode
	*These values are not stored in EXIF4FILM and are therefore not
	 imported to ExIf35.

Title
	*Description is used to house "subject" from EXIF4FILM. This
	 value can be written to the final file by selecting it during
	 the ExIf writing process. 

Lens
	*Lens data is based on name only. The name must match between
	 EXIF4FILM and ExIf35 or else the data will not be stored in the
	 image file correctly. 

Filter
	*Filter is a plain text field just as in ExIf35 and therefore
	 does not rely on a special database match, but it is a good idea
	 to make sure that both applications use the same name for
 	 consistency. 

Film Load/Unload Times
	*ExIf35 does not store film load/unload times. This will however
	 be corrected in future revisions of the application and will at
	 that time be imported from the EXIF4FILM files. 


	Data that is recorded by ExIf35, but not imported from EXIF4FILM 
may be manually entered on each exposure, or multple exposures may be
selected and the user may enter data for all exposures at once using the
appropriate option on the "Additional Information" menu in the main 
dialog of the application. 

 

