ExIf 35 Operating Instructions
Updated September 19, 2012
by Curtis M. Kularski
---------------------------------------
This Manual Contains The Following Sections:
	*Basic Operation
	*Mating and Rotating
	*Writing to Exif
	*Expected Field Values
	*Using for roll information only
	*Merging Files
	*Backing Up and Restoring Settings
	*Reccomended Procedures

Basic Operation
	The first time you open ExIf 35, you will be in a blank roll file. You 
should begin by entering information about the film, and also about the camera.
You may also use the "Additional Information" menu to enter information about 
yourself and the lenses you use with your camera (if you are using a changable
lens camera). Once the basic information is entered, you may ensure that it is
saved to the configuration by clicking the "Save Roll" button. 
	As soon as the basic information is stored, you may begin adding your 
images by selecting "Add Exposure" and entering the relevant information to the
dialog that appears. Some fields that appear may not be relevant to you, or may
be excessive for your needs. You may safely ignore those fields and leave them 
as "Unknown" or blank. Most novices (and many professionals) will choose to
completely ignore all of the fields on the right side of the box. 

Mating and Rotation
	If you know that your image files are not all aligned to the same orientation
it is possible to load the files first before writing the ExIf data and specifying
rotation data while viewing a thumbnail version of the image file. To do this, 
click on Mate/Rotate and then drag your files into the box or select the directory
in which the files exist. This will match your files to the exposures in the roll
file. Once the files are mated with their roll entried you may click on a file to 
force its thumbnail to appear in the left panel. Once it appears you may use the
buttons below the tumbnail to rotate the image 90 degrees per turn. Once you click
off of the exposure in the list the change of orientation will be saved in the 
exposure entry of the roll. Once finished rotating images, close the Mating and
Rotation panel. Save to roll to file to ensure that your changes will be reserved. 

Writing to Exif
	Once exposures are entered into the application, writing the information to
the exif of a JPEG is as simple as clicking "Write ExIf", and either selecting 
a folder, or dragging the files on to the panel, and then clicking "Write". You
may opt to select additional features though, such as writing of copyright, 
contact and other information on the file. You may also select the digitization
method for the files to have that information recorded as well. The default 
configuration will place your output files in the same folder as the source, 
but with a different filename. You may keep this option or you may select to 
overwrite the originals (completely safe for the image, but may overwrite 
existing exif data) or you may select a new destination folder. 
	If you make an error in adding files, click "Clear" and you will be able to
try again. If you have one file that is problematic you may right-click it and
choose "Set File" to manually select a single file to replace. 
	If you wish to not set an image to an exposure, you may right-click that
exposure's line and select "Skip". To reinstate the exposure, repeat the 
procedure.
	To mass load files, but to exclude a few from being written, load the batch
that you intend to load, then right-click on the files that you wish to exclude
and click "skip" on them. The file will not be used, and the exposure's 
information will not be written to any file (except the roll file, of course).

Expected Field Values
	ExIf35 uses a lot of fields to record information. Fortunately most of them
are selection boxes where the user must only choose the correct value. There 
are, however, a few fields that require special attention. 

	*Aperture - expects only a whole number, or a single decimal point. For 
		example: "2.8" and "22" are both valid, but "f/2.8" and "F22" are not
		accepted by the application. 
	*Exposure Time - the time used for the exposure. The application will 
		accept whole numbers for seconds (usually between 1 and 30), but it 
		will also accept normal fractions such as 1/60 and 1/4000. Finally, 
		while not the prefered format, the application will also accept decimal
		seconds, such as 1.25 or a combination of the above, such as 1/1.25. 
		The application will not accept any time designation characters such as
		: or ". 
	*Focal length - whole numbers used for focal length, usually marked on the 
		lens body. Only whole numbers are accepted. 
	*Exposure Bias - also called EV, or Exposure Compensation. The application 
		will accept positive or negative values in this field (it is a signed
		field). You may use either the decimal for rational form for this
		number. The application must convert it to a rational for writing to a
		file. 
	*DateTime/DateTimeDigitized - This field must be formatted in complicance
		with ExIf standards regarding time storage. The format is the four 
		digit year, colon (:), two digit month, colon (:), two digit day, colon
		(:), space, two-digit 24H hour (00 - 23), colon (:), two digit minute, 
		colon (:), two digit second; or YYYY-mm-dd HH:mm:ss. The application 
		uses text-box masking in the Windows version to help you keep this in 
		order.
	*DevelopDate - same as DateTime, except there is no time component. Format
		is YYYY:mm:dd.
	*Number - number is a field used by both the rolls and the exposures. This 
		field is an arbitrary counter that is used for organization purposes 
		for rolls, but to label frames on the roll for exposures. The only 
		requirement for these fields is that it must be numeric. 
	*Unique ID - the unique ID is a free-form string field, you may use any 
		text or numeric value you wish to use, as long as it is unique between
		rolls. 

Using for roll information only
	You may use ExIf35 for writing only roll information to files, ignoring the
individual exposures. To do this procedure, create a new roll file and enter 
its information. Then, from the "EXPOSURES" menu, add blank exposures. Enter
the number of exposures that your roll contains. Click Add. Save your roll 
file, then open the exif writing panel by clicking "Write EXIF".  

Merging Files
	With ExIf35 it is possible to combine two roll files into one. The most 
common use of this functinality is in adding exposures from a file recorded on
the mobile version of the application to the active file on the main 
application. The main file will be the file that is open at the time of the 
merging, and the subordinate file will be the file that is being added.
	To merge two files, open the main file in the application. Once the file is
loaded, from the "Roll" menu, select "Add Exposures From File". You will be 
promted for the location of the file. Select the file and the exposures will be
immediately added the the existing exposures in the application. Click "Save 
Roll" to finalize the merge. Once you complete the merge it is safe to delete
the subordinate file, to prevent it being confused with the main file. 

Backing up and Restoring Your Settings
	Adding information to an application such as ExIf35 can be tedious. For 
that reason, ExIf 35 has a built in backup utility. You may backup your files
by selecting "Backup Settings" from the "Utilities" menu. You must select a 
bacup location, and then click "Backup". 
	If you find yourself in a situation where you need to restore from a 
backup, you will use the above procedure, except from the "Restore" tab. From 
that tab, you will select your restore location. Don't worry if other files are
in the same folder, ExIf35 will only copy files that belong to it (it checks 
files with its manifest). You may also wish to utilize this portion of the 
utility for copying your configuration between computers. 
	If you do not have a backup of your configuration and the application 
begins to operate in an undesired (or inconsistent) way, you may visit the 
Backup utility to clean the main config file. You will find the utiltiy for
this on the "Reset" tab. The original configuration is saved as "exif35.bak".
If you must restore from the backup, it must be done manually. 
	Finally, you may find it desirable to clean ALL configuration information
from the application in an expedicious manner. This can occur if you neeed to 
tag images on a client's computer, or otherwise are using a system that you 
only temporarily have access to. This functionality, a kill switch, is located
on the Backup Settings window on the "Kill" tab. Clicking "Kill Configuration"
and then accepting the proceding dialog will erase all traces of configuration
for the application. It is recomended that you make a backup to an external 
device before you execute this procedure, as it has no undo function.  

Recomended Procedures
	The application imposes very few standards on its users, as every user 
will have a different way of using the application, but the developer does have
some suggestions for optimal use. 
	*Backups - Once you have configured the application to your liking and have
		added a few exposures, use the backup functionality and save your 
		settings to an external storage device. It is recomended to update 
		these backups whenever you make major changes to the config, or when 
		there is a change to the configuration type of the application (this 
		will be noted in the release notes of each build). 
	* Naming - Rolls can be named anything, but it is recomended that you name
		them by either the date they are loaded or the date they are finished.
		This naming structure will help keep things organized. 
	*Storage of files - While it is possible to place roll files anywhere, you
		may wish to store them in a folder on your computer with a name such as
		"My Film Info", or in the folder that contains/will contain the digital
		version of the exposures (if any). 